README.md, before:


# dmap-import
Import DMAP data into a PostgreSQL database

## Dev Setup (Mac)

* Install ASDF, Python3, Postgres
```sh
# for docker
brew install docker docker-compose docker-buildx

brew install asdf
```
* run `asdf install` to install tools via asdf
* run `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true` to install venv in folder
* run `poetry install` to install python dependencies
* run `cp .env.template .env` and fill out any missing environment variables
* run `docker-compose build` to build the docker images for local testing
    * run `docker-compose up cubic_local_rds` to stand up a local postgres db
        * this imnage could be used when running pytest
    * run `docker-compose up cubic_import` to run the importer application

### Outside of Docker

1. Navigate to repository directory.
2. Update `.env` variable. Source it `source .env`.
3. Run `poetry run start` to run the ingestion process.
4. Run `psql postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:5432/cubic_loader` to get into the database. Alternatively, after `docker-compose up`, you can:
    1. `docker exec -it dmap_local_rds bash`
    2. `psql -U postgres -d cubic_loader`
5. Run format, type and lint checker:
    * `poetry run black .`
    * `poetry run mypy .`
    * `poetry run pylint src tests`
6. Run tests, `poetry run pytest`.

### Alembic

To create new migration:
```sh
alembic revision -m "adding a new column"
# [optional] rename generated file so as to sort migrations by name by prepending '0xx_'
```

Commit message:

Adding deploy and alembic instructions (#79)
* Adding deploy and alembic instructions

README.md, after:


# dmap-import
Import DMAP data into a PostgreSQL database

## Dev Setup (Mac)

* Install ASDF, Python3, Postgres
```sh
# for docker
brew install docker docker-compose docker-buildx

brew install asdf
```
* run `asdf install` to install tools via asdf
* run `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true` to install venv in folder
* run `poetry install` to install python dependencies
* run `cp .env.template .env` and fill out any missing environment variables
* run `docker-compose build` to build the docker images for local testing
    * run `docker-compose up cubic_local_rds` to stand up a local postgres db
        * this imnage could be used when running pytest
    * run `docker-compose up cubic_import` to run the importer application

### Outside of Docker

1. Navigate to repository directory.
2. Update `.env` variable. Source it `source .env`.
3. Run `poetry run start` to run the ingestion process.
4. Run `psql postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:5432/cubic_loader` to get into the database. Alternatively, after `docker-compose up`, you can:
    1. `docker exec -it dmap_local_rds bash`
    2. `psql -U postgres -d cubic_loader`
5. Run format, type and lint checker:
    * `poetry run black .`
    * `poetry run mypy .`
    * `poetry run pylint src tests`
6. Run tests, `poetry run pytest`.

### Alembic

#### To create new migration:
1. run:
```sh
alembic revision -m "adding a new column"
```
2. Rename generated file so as to sort migrations by name by prepending '0xx_'

#### To apply migrations:
```
poetry run alembic upgrade head
```

### Deploying changes
New changes are automatically deployed to staging when changes are merged into main [workflow](https://github.com/mbta/dmap-import/actions/workflows/deploy_to_staging.yaml).

To deploy changes to prod, you must add a tag, which will automatically trigger the deployment. You cannot manually trigger this workflow. To add a tag to the current state, figure out the new tag name per the [guidelines](https://www.notion.so/mbta-downtown-crossing/Module-Versioning-Overview-1f4f5d8d11ea80a28590f94ed28fb18e#1f4f5d8d11ea80a28590f94ed28fb18e) and run:
```
git tag v1.3.22 # or your tag name
git push origin --tags
```
